This is great.
So now we know like we want these
influential sites linking to us.
And we wanna build rich content.
And it's gonna come time for
us to try to figure out, which keywords
are important to our business.
And this tells us, what kind of
content we should be writing about.
When we start talking about advertising.
Keywords are very important in terms of
knowing, where to invest some money and
where to kind of steer clear.
So there's this sort
of new way of thinking
about which keywords are the highest
value, to invest in.
And it has to do with this graph here.
So what we can see is that very rich
keywords like very important keywords,
that are highly competitive and
highly sought after.
They account for
a little less than 20% of total searches.
So here's an example of a very
competitive keyword a Yahoo,
one of our top search
terms was car donation.
So can anyone guess why car donation
might be like a really hard search term?
So.
>> Are you looking for like a tax break?
>> You're looking for tax break?
>> Yeah.
>> Right.
So, A you're looking for a tax break B,
there's high intent,
you're not gonna just search for
car donation without really having a car
on hand that you're ready to let go off.
You don't really, you want to get it done
fast and you're just gonna Google for
it, who will take my car and
give me a tax break?
The third factor here is,
whoever gets that conversion,
whoever gets the click and you see their
address and you drive your car there,
you're gonna leave a car with them.
Right?
So we were seeing even like nonprofits,
were competing for that search keyword
at like $70 a click something like that.
Which would be maybe a couple
hundred dollars per conversion.
They were willing to pay that much
because what they're getting is for
every conversion, a car that on
average is worth $1200, right?
So that's a really competitive keyword
that people are edging each other out on.
Other competitive ones are like
credit card, mortgage, diamond,
diamond is a really like hot keyword.
Like debt consolidation
is a really hot keyword.
Anytime you have sort
of a commodity business
where there's a lot of profit to be made
by any player in the space like that.
You wanna stay away from that because
they're all trying to edge each other out
and they're just throwing tons of cash
down to pay high dollars for those clicks.
So moving down this graph to the right,
we've got the chunky middle and
that's where we start to put
a little bit more intent
into what people are searching for
and what people are talking about.
Moving further to the right,
we get high intent and so
in terms of like,
tying it back to front end masters.
This would be the difference between
investing in ads that target like, learn
JavaScript or just the word JavaScript
verses like an SEO metadata video course.
If you're searching for
SEO metadata video course,
front end masters has something
relevant that they can offer and
they're looking for a video course and
that is what front end masters sells.
And metadata is one of
the topics that we're covering.
It's so high intent, and there's a lot
less competition over that right all of
the React JS courses will fall away and
you
have a much smaller Haystack and they have
a giant needle sitting right on top of it.
Yes,
>> Yeah.
I just, another follow up comment to that.
I mean, a lot of our stuff is like very,
very specific courses.
So when people search
those specific terms,
like that is how we get like
the majority of our customers actually,
I mean over 30% of our customer,
new customers come in through search.
>> Yeah.
>> That's a really, really big deal.
>> I'm not surprised.
>> With high intent keywords.
>> High intent keywords and by the way
you'll notice so that long tail that is
thick, like all the way out out the window
across the to the next building here,
so that accounts for
70% of all searches, these high intent,
multi word phrases that are very targeted
towards the product you have to offer.
And these could be like if you're selling
shoes you might be like, you might say,
men size 12 Dina's something, and
yeah, you'd have to generate a lot
of permutations of these things to like,
build 1000 keywords that you can then
target but
fewer people are fighting over those.
And so you end up paying less,
you end up getting more conversions
like front end masters the same.
So and when someone's high intent,
they're inherently more likely to convert.
Right, if someone's just looking.
They heard the word JavaScript that like
some, your grandmother heard you talking
about JavaScript and they typed
the word and they're what's this thing?
That's not something that's not
a front end masters customer, so
you filter out all of those
general knowledge searchers and
get people that like
they know what they want.
These two apps here SEMrush and
Wordtracker.
They are great for starting with
some general keywords and figuring
out some great like high opportunity
phrases that you can use
not only in the content that you write,
but in your advertising strategy, right?
And so this would help you understand,
what are the words that are relevant to my
business that few people
are fighting over.
And that's where like the ROI for
that is very high.